Adios COVID is a nonprofit organization that provides mobile pop-up clinics for vulnerable Latino communities in Washington State. These clinics offer COVID-19 vaccinations, flu shots, hypertension screening, and diabetes screening free of charge. The organization also provides tools for community health workers to connect vulnerable Latinos in their communities to the clinics and to follow-on care via telehealth.

Adios COVID was formed in 2020 by Dr. Leo Morales and Frank Martinez; to address the growing needs of the Latino community early in the COVID-19 pandemic. Our mission is to facilitate the vaccination and wellness of all Latinos in Washington state; by partnering with grassroots Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) and similar organizations throughout the state; to conduct outreach and organize wellness resources for Latino communities.  It's a multidisciplinary collaboration with volunteers from the Center for Latino Health, University of Washington Information School, and other individuals from the Seattle area who align with the mission. 

The mobile pop-up clinics provided by Adios COVID and it's partners are an important part of the organization's efforts to improve the health of vulnerable Latino communities in the state. These clinics offer a range of services, including COVID-19 vaccinations, flu shots, hypertension screening, and diabetes screening. By providing these services free of charge, the organization is able to reach vulnerable populations that might not otherwise have access to healthcare.

In addition to providing healthcare services, Adios COVID also provides tools for community health workers to connect vulnerable Latinos in their communities to the clinics and to follow-on care via telehealth. This is an important part of the organization's efforts to ensure that vulnerable populations have access to the care they need. By providing these tools, the organization is able to reach more people and provide them with the care they need to stay healthy.

Overall, Adios COVID is an important nonprofit organization that provides mobile pop-up clinics for vulnerable Latino communities in Washington State. 

Partners
Adios COVID partners help us deliver wellness to underserved and hard to reach communities. See a list of partners below.
Latino Center for Health
University of Washington School of Medicine
University of Washington Information School
Washington Department of Health
Southwest Washington LULAC
Parque Padrinos de Wenatchee Washington
CAFÉ (Community for the Advancement of Family Education)
Heritage University
Community Connectadoras of South Park
El Centro de la Raza
Centro Cultural Mexicano
Electronic Arts
All in Washington
Birds Eye Medical
Rural Resources Community Action
Tri-Cities Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
Washington State Catholic Conference

Impact
Our reach has been statewide (Washington) for COVID-19 vaccination events (pop-ups) including distribution of free rapid tests.
We've also been able to successfully pilot a free test-to-treat program that's been adopted by Washington Department of Health.
And, we've launched the first study of Long COVID among Latinos in collaboration with SeaMar Commnunity Health Center, Yakima Valley Farm Workers Clinic, and the Allen Institute for Immunology.

Long COVID
We've participated in, or lead projects to understand the impact of Long COVID in Latino communities. See below.
Long COVID Symposium with Latino Center for Health
Latino Center for Health is hosting an interactive summit to share expertise and discuss how to best address the effects of Long COVID in the Latinx community in Washington State.

See this news story for more details:

Summit on Long COVID, hosted by the Latino Center for Health

Long COVID Capstone with UW iSchool
We partnered with the University of Washington Information School to research the community impact of Long COVID; for Latinos in Eastern Washington.

Please see the link below to learn more about this research.

Long COVID Open Source Research System

Long COVID Research with Allen Institute
Latino Center for Health is partnering with with SeaMar Community Health Centers, Yakima Valley Farm Workers Clinic and Allen Institute to study the extent of Long COVID on the state's Latino communities.

See this news story for more details:

UW Newsroom

Support for Community Health Workers
Community health workers, also known as promotores de salud, play a vital role in improving the health and well-being of Latino communities in rural Washington State. They are trained health professionals who are from the community they serve and are familiar with the cultural and linguistic nuances of the population they work with.
Some of the ways that community health workers help Latinos in rural Washington State include:
1. Providing culturally appropriate health education and outreach: Community health workers educate community members about healthy behaviors, disease prevention, and management of chronic conditions. They do this by conducting workshops, home visits, and outreach events that are tailored to the specific needs of the community.
2. Assisting with healthcare navigation: Community health workers help community members access healthcare services by providing information about healthcare resources, assisting with appointment scheduling, and accompanying patients to medical appointments.
3. Providing support for chronic disease management: Community health workers work with community members to develop personalized plans for managing chronic conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, and asthma. They also provide ongoing support and monitoring to help individuals adhere to their treatment plans.
4. Connecting community members to resources: Community health workers are knowledgeable about local resources and services that can support community members' health and well-being. They connect individuals to resources such as food banks, housing assistance, and mental health services.
5. Building community capacity: Community health workers empower community members to take control of their health by training them to become health advocates and leaders. They also work with community organizations and healthcare providers to build partnerships that support the health and well-being of the community.
Overall, community health workers are an essential resource for improving the health and well-being of Latino communities in rural Washington State. They work to address health disparities and ensure that community members have access to the healthcare and resources they need to lead healthy and fulfilling lives.
